Python is an interpreted, high-level, general-purpose programming language. Created by Guido van Rossum and first released in 1991, Python’s design philosophy emphasizes code readability with its notable use of significant whitespace and indent levels. Its language constructs and object-oriented approach aim to help programmers write clear, logical code for small and large-scale purposes.

This Project, titled Liblight, Library Management System is implemented using the Python programming language, with MySQL as the database. It allows a user to browse through various genres of books in a library and it authorizes the admin to manage the book and user databases. It has a login facility for both the user and the admin. This system enables the user to discover new books, manage their activity by allowing both borrow and return book functions as well as keeping a track on their pending fines. It provides user with a platform for queries and complaints and allows them to manage their profile. An added perk of the user page is that each user is entitled to a library membership. The admin has the rights to manage book and user databases as well as answer to the queries and complaints posed by the user.

The Project contains two sign-in modes, Admin and User. User mode is restricted to borrowing and returning books, whereas Admin mode provides access to the data that has been entered by the user along with the power to view and manage books and user related operations.

The project involves Graphical User Interface (GUI) using Tkinter . GUI enables users to interact using various visual indicators such as buttons, windows, entry boxes, etc. Tkinter is the standard GUI library for Python. The code is designed in such a way that it provides complete control to the user. It handles the common mistakes and exceptions, thus being user-friendly.

